README.md, before:

M.A.R.S
======

The code in this repository is a modified fork:

- Fixed compile warnings
- Added ASAN support
- Processed through clang-tidy and clang-format
- Added xdg support -- config files are now stored in `~/.config/marsshooter/`
- Modified some raw pointers to smart pointers, to avoid memory leaks

Bugs might still exist -- build with ASAN and play to find them.

---

**M.A.R.S. - a ridiculous shooter** is a 2D space shooter with awesome visual effects and attractive physics. Players can battle each other or computer controlled enemies in exciting game modes. 

Feel free to visit its **homepage** at http://mars-game.sourceforge.net/

## The Story
In year 3547, civilizations all over the galaxy have settled their own planets, living in peace and harmony with its environment. But outside the contemplative habitats, the GREAT WAR is raging. As a famous fighter on your way to never ending honor and prosperity, you have to protect your planet from the oncoming doom of your jealous neighbours!

## Compiling and installing from source!
For information on how to compile the game from source, please feel free to visit [BUILD.md](BUILD.md)

## Donate!
We are always happy if people are interested in supporting our project. Aside from sending in patches and giving feedback concerning gameplay etc., a nice way to show your liking is to donate some money ;-)

## License

Copyright (C) 2010-2012 Simon Schneegans and Felix Lauer <marscoreteam@googlemail.com>

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

Commit message:

Add docker and compose support

README.md, after:

M.A.R.S
======

The code in this repository is a modified fork:

- Fixed compile warnings
- Added ASAN support
- Processed through clang-tidy and clang-format
- Added xdg support -- config files are now stored in `~/.config/marsshooter/`
- Modified some raw pointers to smart pointers, to avoid memory leaks
- Provided files to run with docker-compose on Linux desktop (X11)

Bugs might still exist -- build with ASAN and play to find them.

---

**M.A.R.S. - a ridiculous shooter** is a 2D space shooter with awesome visual effects and attractive physics. Players can battle each other or computer controlled enemies in exciting game modes. 

Feel free to visit its **homepage** at http://mars-game.sourceforge.net/

## The Story
In year 3547, civilizations all over the galaxy have settled their own planets, living in peace and harmony with its environment. But outside the contemplative habitats, the GREAT WAR is raging. As a famous fighter on your way to never ending honor and prosperity, you have to protect your planet from the oncoming doom of your jealous neighbours!

## Compiling and installing from source!
For information on how to compile the game from source, please feel free to visit [BUILD.md](BUILD.md)

## Donate!
We are always happy if people are interested in supporting our project. Aside from sending in patches and giving feedback concerning gameplay etc., a nice way to show your liking is to donate some money ;-)

## License

Copyright (C) 2010-2012 Simon Schneegans and Felix Lauer <marscoreteam@googlemail.com>

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
